hello internet my name is Sarah DG
rhymes with peachy welcome to the first
ever episode of how to podcast brought
to you by Squarespace whether you need a
domain a website or a online store make
it with Squarespace audio and podcasting
has grown like crazy year after year
according to Edison research 18% of
Americans live in households with at
least one smart speaker compared to only
7% last year this adoption rate is
faster than the early days of the smart
phone yeah an estimated 180 million
Americans listened to online audio every
month and 48 million Americans listened
to podcast weekly I want to start a
podcast selfishly I am so excited to
have our long conversations with some of
the most creative people on this planet
but also I'm sharing every step of the
journey with you guys so the first step
is gear
I not only want this podcast you have
crispy audio but I want video attached I
want to make a youtube channel for it
[Music]
so I'm here under B and H because
there's a lot of things that go into a
video podcast that I'm learning just
because most the time I'm not going to
have a huge team around me so number one
goal is to find a video here a camcorder
I I haven't heard the word camcorder in
a while I feel like it's what dad's used
to record soccer games battery life and
then it needs to record over 30 minutes
without having to hit the record button
it because sony a7s so tez is here with
me cameras are classified as photo
cameras first and foremost the only
allowed to record 30 minutes video
camera which I don't understand the game
you're tired
pecker for Thoreau only when it comes
close to it is that woman the core
the reason being is that this is canon's
first full inch sensor camcorder and
consumer yeah
the reason is yeah it becomes a like a
particle what's happening is there's a
lot of things about camcorder is good
battery life it can record forever past
30 minute mark at the same time I would
have to record an ABC HD which adds to
my workflow and editing dragging and
dropping so the micro four-thirds
quality is going to be better in the gh
5 and every quarter past 30 minutes
landed are something that I would not
have expected
Panasonic gh4 hi guys I hope you're
enjoying the episode so far as you can
tell the production value has stepped up
a little bit and that's thanks to our
sponsor
Squarespace if you're a photographer you
need an online portfolio if you have
products you need an online shop new
Peacham are coming soon by the way but
see this this has been my website for a
while I know it's so sad but today I am
giving it a facelift
each episode I'm going to sprinkle in
some new features from my website and
this episode I'm gonna focus on my
newsletter I just want a pretty landing
page a place to sign up your email
whether you need a website for your main
gig or your side hustle Squarespace has
beautiful templates they just released 8
new ones this year you don't have to
install patch or upgrade anything
Squarespace is a one-stop-shop for what
should neat go to Squarespace comm for a
free trial and when you're ready to
watch go to Squarespace comm slash Sara
deechi to save 10% off make your
business make your online portfolio make
whatever is in your brain whatever your
dream is make it with Squarespace no
back to the regular scheduled
programming how to podcast
there are a lot of things that go into a
podcast so that's why we're trying
someone who has done a podcast for
almost 10 years is a lot of people ask
me about how did I know about podcasting
and I didn't was a complete fluke and I
grew up in public as a podcaster and so
whenever anybody asks well how long
should I expect that it takes I'm like
it could take a while hey if I may be
example Debbie Millman she's a big deal
she's written six books she has designed
everything from Star Wars merchandise to
global Burger King rebrands was
president of sterling brands for 20
years as president emeritus of AIGA the
editorial and creative director of print
magazine and the founder and host of the
podcast design matters so yeah we're
gonna get some podcasting advice from
Debbie Millman herself so this is
Debbie's office it is incredible
so tell the audience a little bit of
what you do here at SVA yes and then
we'll get into the design matters
podcasts okay because well this is the
School of Visual Arts and we are sitting
in the masters and branding program
which I co-founded with one of my
favorite people in the entire world a
man named Stephen Heller we founded the
program in 2009 and our first class
graduated in 2011 and so now we're in
our eighth year which is super exciting
and I can't believe how fast time flies
but this is where we educate and
stimulate and provoke young minds in
branding a break for it
2005 my first podcast was aired on Voice
America Business Network which was a
fledgling radio network
and they called me cold called me in
2004 and asked me if I wanted to do a
radio show on their network and at first
I thought wow this is gonna be amazing
I'm there they're hiring me to be a
radio host and then I realized very
quickly that they really weren't hiring
me they were offering me an opportunity
to pay them to produce radio show for me
and at the time I was really in the
thick of my branding career at Sterling
brands and I had all but given up
anything that was non-commercial in my
creativity and felt that I was dying
inside a little bit and so I natural
part of the creative process yeah and it
was it was challenging because I loved
the professional success but I felt that
what I was doing wasn't really as
creative as I wanted it to be I had no
experience doing any kind of radio other
than a little bit of DJing when I was in
college I didn't know that but not a lot
of DJ are there some archives if you
ride a turntable I don't think there are
archives but they were definitely people
you can talk to about last skill but in
any case so I decided to do this thing I
just felt like it would be a fun thing
to try I had a little bit of savings
because I was doing well professionally
and so I paid Voice America for 13
episodes of design matters with Debbie
Millman and it began airing in 2005 it
was airing alive and I was doing my show
with telephone handsets so I would be
sitting at my desk in the Empire State
Building where I had sterling brands
talking to someone who was sitting
across from me with the handset that's
how we started now I don't know if
you've ever spoken to your grandma at
home on a landline and then your mom
picks up
yeah and that echo well that's what it
was like to record all my shows I had to
contend with that the listener didn't
hear it but because I was hearing the
echo in real time of the talk I had to
sort of contend with
and so people started asking me if they
couldn't hear it live when I was doing
it how could they listen and so actually
my friend Brian E Gomez Palacio who is
one of the founders of under
consideration and the blog speak up and
brand-new she said why don't you load it
upload it to iTunes as if you were you
know an indie musician and there wasn't
any iTunes section at that point so I
just started to do it
iTunes accepted it and that's how people
were able to listen to the show that
weren't able to listen live when I was
doing it you know for people that are
wanting to do something that they
haven't done before and are just ready
to put it out there my my advice is
practice a little bit because you don't
really know what you don't know until
you're doing it and fall flat on your
face which is what I did publicly over
and over and over and over again
anything can and will happen in live
radio I am so glad I'm not doing my
podcast live that would be terrifying so
this is where I do the show I have my
notes here and I have students that are
sitting a live studio audience we
reorganize the room so that the chairs
are facing the window and then my
producer sits over there Curtis sits
there and I generally know to wrap up
when he goes like that because then I
know he's bored my recommendation would
be to do all your own research because
you'll find things that you want to talk
to somebody about based on what you
discover and the more you're interested
in the topic the more likely the
conversation will be vibrant and robust
the other thing is I try not to ask
questions that other people have asked
before in the interviews that I either
watch or weed if I want to talk about
that specific subject I'll mention the
answer that they might have given to
that previous question and then try to
build on it as opposed to just having
questions that you know everybody's
already asked and they've already
answered 400 or 500 times
debbie has me so inspired to get this
podcast rolling but there are a couple
things that are very important to get it
going
one is the podcast art and two is the
name I don't have a name yet design
matters it's such a powerful yet simple
name I am completely clueless on where
to start so this is when I start texting
my creative friends is specifically
chris hall
[Music]
I have a name I have a logo the creative
exchange it feels good but my only
question is do I get the stamp of
approval from Debbie Millman so we're
gonna get her opinion on the final I
haven't seen this yet oh it's really
wonderful it's really strong
I love the RX that's good so my friend
Chris shout-out to Chris he was the
person who did that so I can't take this
really good would you make so this is
actually the only thing I want to do is
I would make your name bigger okay
that's what I was thinking because it's
so much a part of who you are so I would
actually I would just fill up the box
with the whole logo and your name your
name should be as big as creative
exchange okay that that would be my
recommendation okay it's your show
you're the centerpiece of the show you
have a wonderful reputation and
following so I would really capitalize
on that being heron so can people find
design matters like everywhere Apple
podcast podcast I think I'm just putting
it up on google play now bunch of people
have asked they can find it on
soundcloud on my web site on the design
observer comm website
thank you guys so much for tuning in you
can find the links for the podcast and
for the podcast YouTube channel there is
a video component to do this in the
description below
shout out to Debbie for helped me out it
was a journey finding all of the gear
and the ways to make this come to life
and I'm excited so tune in episode 2
coming out next week let me know if you
like this video hit that subscribe
button down below for new videos every
single week stay peachy okay
[Music]